# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

#### Public Classes

* [`munin::master`](#munin--master): configure a munin master
* [`munin::node`](#munin--node): configure a munin node

#### Private Classes

* `munin::master::collect`: Helper class to collect the exported munin nodes.
* `munin::node::export`: Helper class to export the munin node.

### Defined types

* [`munin::master::node_definition`](#munin--master--node_definition): Configure information about a munin node on the munin
master
* [`munin::plugin`](#munin--plugin): Install and configure munin plugins

## Classes

### <a name="munin--master"></a>`munin::master`

The munin master will install munin, and collect all exported munin
node definitions as files into /etc/munin/munin-conf.d/.

* **See also**
  * http://guide.munin-monitoring.org/en/latest/

#### Examples

##### Basic usage

```puppet
include munin::master
```

##### With TLS

```puppet
class { 'munin::master':
  tls             => 'enabled',
  tls_certificate => '/path/to/tls/certificate',
  tls_private_key => '/path/to/tls/key',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `munin::master` class:

* [`node_definitions`](#-munin--master--node_definitions)
* [`host_name`](#-munin--master--host_name)
* [`graph_strategy`](#-munin--master--graph_strategy)
* [`html_strategy`](#-munin--master--html_strategy)
* [`config_root`](#-munin--master--config_root)
* [`file_group`](#-munin--master--file_group)
* [`collect_nodes`](#-munin--master--collect_nodes)
* [`dbdir`](#-munin--master--dbdir)
* [`htmldir`](#-munin--master--htmldir)
* [`rundir`](#-munin--master--rundir)
* [`logdir`](#-munin--master--logdir)
* [`package_name`](#-munin--master--package_name)
* [`tls`](#-munin--master--tls)
* [`tls_certificate`](#-munin--master--tls_certificate)
* [`tls_private_key`](#-munin--master--tls_private_key)
* [`tls_verify_certificate`](#-munin--master--tls_verify_certificate)
* [`extra_config`](#-munin--master--extra_config)

##### <a name="-munin--master--node_definitions"></a>`node_definitions`

Data type: `Hash`

A hash of node definitions used by create_resources to make static
node definitions.

##### <a name="-munin--master--host_name"></a>`host_name`

Data type: `Stdlib::Host`

A host name for this munin master, matched with
munin::node::mastername for collecting nodes. Defaults to $::fqdn

This is used for collecting **munin::master::node_definition**
resources exported by nodes using the **munin::node** class.

##### <a name="-munin--master--graph_strategy"></a>`graph_strategy`

Data type: `Enum['cgi', 'cron']`

Controls if munin-graph graphs all services ('cron') or if
graphing is done by munin-cgi-graph (which must configured
seperatly)

##### <a name="-munin--master--html_strategy"></a>`html_strategy`

Data type: `Enum['cgi', 'cron']`

Controls if munin-html will recreate all html pages every run
interval ('cron') or if html pages are generated by
munin-cgi-graph (which must configured seperatly). Defaults to
"cgi".

##### <a name="-munin--master--config_root"></a>`config_root`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The root directory of the munin master configuration. Default:
/etc/munin on most platforms.

##### <a name="-munin--master--file_group"></a>`file_group`

Data type: `String`

The group name for configuration file permissions.

##### <a name="-munin--master--collect_nodes"></a>`collect_nodes`

Data type: `Enum['enabled', 'disabled', 'mine', 'unclaimed']`

Controls which nodes to collect.

'enabled' (default) makes the munin master collect all exported
node_definitions.

'disabled' disables collection.

'mine' makes the munin master collect nodes matching the
$host_name parameter.

'unclaimed' makes the munin master collect nodes not tagged with a
host name.

This is used for collecting **munin::master::node_definition**
resources exported by nodes using the **munin::node** class.

##### <a name="-munin--master--dbdir"></a>`dbdir`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

Path to the munin dbdir, where munin stores everything.

##### <a name="-munin--master--htmldir"></a>`htmldir`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

Path to where munin will generate HTML documents and graphs, used
if graph_strategy is cron.

##### <a name="-munin--master--rundir"></a>`rundir`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

Path to directory munin uses for pid and lock files.

##### <a name="-munin--master--logdir"></a>`logdir`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

Path to directory munin uses for log files.

##### <a name="-munin--master--package_name"></a>`package_name`

Data type: `Variant[String,Array[String]]`

The package name used for installing the munin master.

##### <a name="-munin--master--tls"></a>`tls`

Data type: `Enum['enabled', 'disabled']`

Controls the use of TLS globally for master to node
communications. Default 'disabled'.

##### <a name="-munin--master--tls_certificate"></a>`tls_certificate`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to a file containing a TLS certificate. No default. Required
if tls is enabled.

##### <a name="-munin--master--tls_private_key"></a>`tls_private_key`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to a file containing a TLS key. No default. Required if tls
is enabled.

##### <a name="-munin--master--tls_verify_certificate"></a>`tls_verify_certificate`

Data type: `Enum['yes','no']`

If TLS is used, verify the certificate. Defaults to 'yes'.

##### <a name="-munin--master--extra_config"></a>`extra_config`

Data type: `Array[String]`

Extra lines of config to put in munin.conf.

### <a name="munin--node"></a>`munin::node`

Configure a munin node, and export configuration a munin master can
collect.

List of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses and networks to allow remote munin masters
to connect. By default, the munin node only permits connections from
the local host.

* **See also**
  * http://guide.munin-monitoring.org/en/latest/

#### Examples

##### Basic usage

```puppet
include munin::node
```

##### Permitting a remote munin server to connect

```puppet
class {'munin::node':
  allow => ['192.0.2.1', '2001:db8::1'],
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `munin::node` class:

* [`allow`](#-munin--node--allow)
* [`config_root`](#-munin--node--config_root)
* [`nodeconfig`](#-munin--node--nodeconfig)
* [`host_name`](#-munin--node--host_name)
* [`log_dir`](#-munin--node--log_dir)
* [`log_file`](#-munin--node--log_file)
* [`log_destination`](#-munin--node--log_destination)
* [`purge_configs`](#-munin--node--purge_configs)
* [`syslog_facility`](#-munin--node--syslog_facility)
* [`export_node`](#-munin--node--export_node)
* [`masterconfig`](#-munin--node--masterconfig)
* [`mastername`](#-munin--node--mastername)
* [`mastergroup`](#-munin--node--mastergroup)
* [`plugins`](#-munin--node--plugins)
* [`address`](#-munin--node--address)
* [`bind_address`](#-munin--node--bind_address)
* [`bind_port`](#-munin--node--bind_port)
* [`package_name`](#-munin--node--package_name)
* [`service_name`](#-munin--node--service_name)
* [`service_ensure`](#-munin--node--service_ensure)
* [`file_group`](#-munin--node--file_group)
* [`timeout`](#-munin--node--timeout)
* [`plugin_share_dir`](#-munin--node--plugin_share_dir)

##### <a name="-munin--node--allow"></a>`allow`

Data type: `Array`



##### <a name="-munin--node--config_root"></a>`config_root`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Root directory for munin configuration.

##### <a name="-munin--node--nodeconfig"></a>`nodeconfig`

Data type: `Array`

List of lines to append to the munin node configuration.

##### <a name="-munin--node--host_name"></a>`host_name`

Data type: `Stdlib::Host`

The host name munin node identifies as. Defaults to the $::fqdn
fact.

##### <a name="-munin--node--log_dir"></a>`log_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The log directory for the munin node process. Defaults change
according to osfamily, see munin::params::node for details.

##### <a name="-munin--node--log_file"></a>`log_file`

Data type: `String`

File name for the log file, this is appended to "log_dir".
Defaults to "munin-node.log".

##### <a name="-munin--node--log_destination"></a>`log_destination`

Data type: `Enum['file','syslog']`

Configures the log destination. Defaults to "file". If set to
"syslog", the "log_file" and "log_dir" parameters are ignored, and
the "syslog_*" parameters are used if set.

##### <a name="-munin--node--purge_configs"></a>`purge_configs`

Data type: `Boolean`

Removes all munin plugins and munin plugin configuration files not
managed by Puppet. Defaults to false.

##### <a name="-munin--node--syslog_facility"></a>`syslog_facility`

Data type:

```puppet
Optional[
    Variant[
      Integer[0,23],
      Enum[
        'kern','user','mail','daemon','auth','syslog','lpr','news','uucp',
        'authpriv','ftp','cron','local0','local1','local2','local3','local4',
        'local5','local6','local7'
  ]]]
```

Defaults to undef, which makes munin-node use the perl Net::Server
module default of "daemon". Possible values are any syslog
facility by number, or lowercase name.

##### <a name="-munin--node--export_node"></a>`export_node`

Data type: `Enum['enabled','disabled']`

Causes the node config to be exported to puppetmaster. Defaults to
"enabled".

This is used for exporting a **munin::master::node_definition**,
to be collected by a node with **munin::master**.

##### <a name="-munin--node--masterconfig"></a>`masterconfig`

Data type: `Array`

List of configuration lines to append to the munin master node
definition.

This is used for exporting a **munin::master::node_definition**,
to be collected by a node with **munin::master**.

##### <a name="-munin--node--mastername"></a>`mastername`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Host]`

The name of the munin master server which will collect the node
definition.

This is used for exporting a **munin::master::node_definition**,
to be collected by a node with **munin::master**.

##### <a name="-munin--node--mastergroup"></a>`mastergroup`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

The group used on the master to construct a FQN for this node.
Defaults to "", which in turn makes munin master use the domain.
Note: changing this for a node also means you need to move rrd
files on the master, or graph history will be lost.

This is used for exporting a **munin::master::node_definition**,
to be collected by a node with **munin::master**.

##### <a name="-munin--node--plugins"></a>`plugins`

Data type: `Hash`

A hash used by create_resources to create munin::plugin instances.

##### <a name="-munin--node--address"></a>`address`

Data type: `String`

The address used in the munin master node definition.

##### <a name="-munin--node--bind_address"></a>`bind_address`

Data type: `Variant[Enum['*'],Stdlib::Host]`

The IP address the munin-node process listens on. Defaults: *.

##### <a name="-munin--node--bind_port"></a>`bind_port`

Data type: `Stdlib::Port`

The port number the munin-node process listens on.

##### <a name="-munin--node--package_name"></a>`package_name`

Data type: `String`

The name of the munin node package to install.

##### <a name="-munin--node--service_name"></a>`service_name`

Data type: `String`

The name of the munin node service.

##### <a name="-munin--node--service_ensure"></a>`service_ensure`

Data type: `Enum['running','stopped']`

Used as parameter "ensure" for the munin node service.

##### <a name="-munin--node--file_group"></a>`file_group`

Data type: `String`

The UNIX group name owning the configuration files, log files,
etc.

##### <a name="-munin--node--timeout"></a>`timeout`

Data type: `Optional[Integer[0]]`

Set the global plugin runtime timeout for this node. Defaults to
undef, which lets munin-node use its default of 10 seconds.

Default value: `$munin::params::node::timeout`

##### <a name="-munin--node--plugin_share_dir"></a>`plugin_share_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`



## Defined types

### <a name="munin--master--node_definition"></a>`munin::master::node_definition`

This will add configuration for the munin master to connect to a
munin node, and ask for data from its munin plugins.

The resource title is used as the munin FQN, or "fully qualified
name". This defines the node name and group. It is common to use the
host's fully qualified domain name, where the domain name will be
implicitly used as the node group.

Note: By default, using **munin::node** on a node will create a
export a **munin::master::node_definition** to PuppetDB. The node
classified with **munin::master** will collect all these exported
instances.

#### Examples

##### A minimal, static node definition

```puppet
munin::master::node_definition { 'foo.example.com':
  address => '192.0.2.1',
}
```

##### A node definition with configuration

```puppet
munin::master::node_definition { 'bar.example.com':
  address => '192.0.2.2',
  config  => [ 'load.graph_future 30',
               'load.load.trend yes',
               'load.load.predict 86400,12' ],
}
```

##### Using a group in the FQN

```puppet
munin::master::node_definition { 'webservers;web01.example.com':
    address => '192.0.2.3',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `munin::master::node_definition` defined type:

* [`address`](#-munin--master--node_definition--address)
* [`mastername`](#-munin--master--node_definition--mastername)
* [`config`](#-munin--master--node_definition--config)
* [`fqn`](#-munin--master--node_definition--fqn)

##### <a name="-munin--master--node_definition--address"></a>`address`

Data type: `String`

The address of the munin node. A hostname, an IP address, or a
ssh:// uri for munin-async node.

##### <a name="-munin--master--node_definition--mastername"></a>`mastername`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

The name of the munin master server which will collect the node
definition. This is used when exporting and collecting
**munin::master::node_definition** resources between hosts.

Default value: `''`

##### <a name="-munin--master--node_definition--config"></a>`config`

Data type: `Array[String]`

An array of configuration lines to be added to the node
definition.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-munin--master--node_definition--fqn"></a>`fqn`

Data type: `String`

The Munin FQN (Fully Qualified Name) of the node. This should be
'hostname', 'group;hostname', 'group;subgroup;hostname').

If a group is not set, munin will by default use the domain of the
node as a group, if the node name is a fully qualified host name.

The title of the defined resource should be a munin FQN. See the
"fqn" parameter

Default value: `$title`

### <a name="munin--plugin"></a>`munin::plugin`

Install and configure munin plugins

#### Examples

##### Activate a packaged plugin

```puppet
munin::plugin { 'cpu':
  ensure => link,
}
```

##### Activate a packaged wildcard plugin

```puppet
munin::plugin { 'foo_bar':
  ensure => link,
  target => 'foo_',
}
```

##### Install and activate a plugin

```puppet
munin::plugin { 'gazonk':
  ensure => present,
  source => 'puppet:///modules/profile/foo/monitoring/gazonk',
}
```

##### A plugin with configuration

```puppet
munin::plugin { 'bletch':
  ensure => link,
  config => ['env.database thing', 'user bletch'],
}
```

##### A plugin configuration file, but no plugin

```puppet
munin::plugin { 'slapd':
  config       => ['env.rootdn cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org'],
  config_label => 'slapd_*',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `munin::plugin` defined type:

* [`ensure`](#-munin--plugin--ensure)
* [`source`](#-munin--plugin--source)
* [`content`](#-munin--plugin--content)
* [`checksum`](#-munin--plugin--checksum)
* [`checksum_value`](#-munin--plugin--checksum_value)
* [`target`](#-munin--plugin--target)
* [`config`](#-munin--plugin--config)
* [`config_label`](#-munin--plugin--config_label)

##### <a name="-munin--plugin--ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Enum['','present','absent','link']`

The ensure parameter is mandatory for installing a plugin.

With "ensure => link", a symlink is created in the munin plugin
directory to where the plugin file is installed.

With "ensure => present", the plugin is installed in the munin
plugin directory, and the "source" or "content" parameter is required to
provide a source for the plugin.

With "ensure => absent", remove the munin plugin.

When **ensure** is not set, a plugin will not be installed, but
extra plugin configuration can be managed with the **config** and
**config_label** parameters.

Default value: `''`

##### <a name="-munin--plugin--source"></a>`source`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

When ensure => present, path to a source file

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-munin--plugin--content"></a>`content`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

When ensure => present, content of the plugin.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-munin--plugin--checksum"></a>`checksum`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Checksum type for the plugin file.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-munin--plugin--checksum_value"></a>`checksum_value`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Checksum value for the plugin file.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-munin--plugin--target"></a>`target`

Data type: `String`

When "ensure => link", Add a link in the plugin directory to the
link target.

If target is an absolute path (starts with "/") it is used
directly.

If target is a relative path, $munin::node::plugin_share_dir is
prepended.

If target is unset, a link is created to a plugin with the same
name in the packaged $munin::node:: plugin_share_dir directory.
(In other words, activate a plugin that is already installed)

Default value: `''`

##### <a name="-munin--plugin--config"></a>`config`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String]]`

Lines for the munin plugin config.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-munin--plugin--config_label"></a>`config_label`

Data type: `String`

Label for munin plugin config

Default value: `$title`

